Docs: Accessibility Process (WIP) (#9)
ILIAS-TechnicalBoard/ILIAS: docs/development/accessibility-process.md

    * carries out the accessibility checklist on own projects and reviews own code
      with focus on accessibility
    * builds sound understanding of accessibility
    * get in contact with expert group to get better understanding of accessibility
      issues or guidelines

* UI-Coordinators
    * triages objectively testable accessibility bugs for UI components
    * checks if formal requirements are met and code is at the correct locus
    * builds sound understanding of accessibility
    * contact expert group to get better understanding of accessibility issues or
      guidelines

* Community Tester for Accessibility 
    * carries out test cases of accessibility test suite in beta phase 
    * uses of simple diagnostical browser extensions like WAVE or Lighthouse to
      automate a part of testing
    * provides feedback on quality and coverage of accessibility test suite to the
      Test Case Author for Accessibility 
    * analyses External Beta Accessibility Assessment Reports. Prepares bugs based
      on report
    * has sound understanding of accessibility and can be consults by developers on
      bugs

> * Test Case Author for Accessibility

Author: Wer ist das? Soll der-/diejenige mit der UI/UX/A11y-Gruppe verbandelt werden?

Reviewer: Im Moment macht das Alexandra (SIG Head) ja sollten Experten sein IMO. TB kann unmöglich Fallback sein hier, ganz schöne Stange Arbeit. Würde im Text auf Experten Verweisen.

Reviewer 2: Ist meiner Meinung nach gut formuliert so.

>     * prepares and organises test cases of the Accessibility Test Suite

Author: Und verfasst auch, oder?

Reviewer: Wahrscheinlich ist das gemeint mit *Prepares - ja, verfassen auch.

    * Role requirements are described in [Rules of Procedure](https://docu.ilias.de/goto_docu_cat_3773.html)
      for Special Interest Groups.
    * advocates accessibility to community i.e. ensures reports are prepared on
      DevConfs.
    * organizes or initiates or delegates the fundraising

* Accessibility Contractor
    * Is contracted to perform audits and run accessibility trainings for developers
      and community members.
    * is contracted to advise and consults on major UI Developments
    * Accessibility contractors should be tendered and selected from BITV-Test-
      Prüfverband or similar.

* Managing Director of ILIAS society
    * Contracts external Beta Accessibility Assessment with dedicated agency.

* Product Manager
    * Ensures accessibility is aptly considered in feature requests in Jour Fixe

* Technical Board
    * appoints UI/UX/A11y expert group, makes sure that the group works as intended
      and takes the responsibility of that group, if the group does not function
      as intended
    * is responsible for the general form and direction of the accessibility process

* Community Test Manager
    * coordinates accessibility testing

> ## Tools

Author: Macht es Sinn, das UI-Framework/Kitchensink hier explizit als Tool zu erwähnen? MMn wird sich das Thema Accessibility (wie auch andere UI/UX-Probleme) im allgemeinen nicht sinnvoll über eine Betrachtung von Einzelkomponenten bearbeiten lassen.

Reviewer: UI-Framework als Tool zu erwähnen finde ich sinnvoll, da dort zu einzelnen Komponenten weitere Schlüsselaspekte aufgeführt sind. Natürlich ist das nicht die alleinige Lösung des Problems aber ein wichtiger Teilbereich.

Reviewer 2: +1 Ich finde auch die Kürze und Ausrichtung des aktuellen Punktes gut so.

      guideline. If this is the case maintainer has to consult with the UI/UX/A11y
      expert group. The UI/UX/A11y expert group then provides risk analysis of
      features in the Feature Wiki and recommends an accessible approach. If the
      maintainer is unsure about the accessibility issues of a feature, the
      maintainer may turn to Accessibility Mailing List.
    * The "Accessibility" section is to be completed before the article can be
      finally decided by Jour Fixe.

* [Testrail](https://testrail.ilias.de)
    * A [test suite dedicated to Accessibility](https://testrail.ilias.de/index.php?/runs/view/566&group_by=cases:section_id&group_order=asc)
      is available.
    * Test cases are well groomed, easy to carry out and understand.
    * Test cases refer to resource on specific accessibility issues for all
      consumers to look up and self-educate
    * Test Cases are provided that use simple diagnostical browser extensions like
      lighthouse, HTML Validator or Wave browser extension.
    * All KS-Entries are tested for the prioritized issues and using automatic
      tools.

> * Development Tools - suggested WAVE API

Author: Das hier wäre mMn genau die Stelle, die durch die Angebotsanfrage vom TB abgedeckt werden könnte.

Reviewer: +1, jop. Leider noch immer keine Angebote erhalten.

    * Detects issues very early on and drives home the importance of accessibility
      during development.
    * Reports are prepared with Continuous Integration and reported to Jour Fixe.
    * All developers are encouraged to make use of simple diagnostical browser
      extensions like lighthouse, HTML Validator or Wave browser extension

* [Issue Tracker](https://mantis.ilias.de)
    * Issues can be reported on automatically testable violations of guidelines.
    * Issues can be reported on violations of accessibility rules listed in a KS
      entry, but also the on the rules themselves if they need improvement.
      The KS entry and implementation are amended via the normal KS process.
    * Issues can be reported against soft / non-objective parts of the accessibility
      guidelines. These require discussion and decisions. Accessibility Guidelines
      are to be amended or clarified to become more objective. Tickets of this kind
      are assigned to the UI/UX/A11y expert group.

> * [Jour Fixe](https://docu.ilias.de/goto.php?target=wiki_1357_Jour_Fixe_Agendas)

Author: Vielleicht hier noch hervorheben, dass der JF Eskalationsgremium bei A11y-Entscheidungen ist?

Reviewer: +1.

Reviewer 2: +1, ist nun aber schon drin, oder? Ich lese den zweiten Satz genau so. Habe zuerst versucht dies expliziter zu machen, aber alle meine Versuchen haben die Situation nur verschlimmert.

    * Maintainers can put forward their Accessibility issues that came up during
      implementation as "Development Issues".

> * Accessibility Mailing List

Author: Brauchen wir das in Zukunft in dieser Form? Wollen wir eine zentrale Anlaufstelle für die UI/UX/A11y-Gruppe vorgeben?

Reviewer: -1 für Mailing list. Wir sollten da auf die Expert Group verweisen mit TB als Fallback solange keine besteht. Ja, zentrale Anlaufstelle wäre gut, aber z.Z. noch nicht vorhanden.

Reviewer 3: +1 Timon, nicht noch eine Mailing-List. Ich würde mir hier auch andere Kanäle vorstellen (Tracker, direkte E-Mails an Experten, ein Bereich auf der docu-ILIAS, o.ä,).

Reviewer 2: +1 für -1: Weg mit. Nur keine neue Mailingliste.

# Accessibility Process

The ILIAS community aims to provide a system that is usable for everyone, including
users with special needs. This document clarifies how we want to move our software
towards this goal incrementally, who is involved, which tools the community uses and
how different activities are incorporated in our release cycle.

**Table of Contents**
* [Goals](#Goals)
* [Participants](#Participants)
* [Tools](#Tools)
* [Activities in Release Cycle](#Activities in Release Cycle)

## Goals

While the general goal is to provide a system that is usable to for everyone, that
goal needs to be elaborated to some more concrete goals to become effective. These
concrete goals are:

* We want to identify targets for incremental improvements regularly, be it concrete
areas of the system itself or processes, tools and approaches used to work towards
a better accessibility of ILIAS.
* An [expert group](./expert-groups.md) for UI, UX and accessibility is appointed.
The group is a central point of contact for all questions related to ILIAS' user
interface and accessibility.
* External accessibility experts are consulted regularly to improve the general

> compentence of the ILIAS community as well as identify concrete problems or provide

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
compentence of the ILIAS community as well as to identify concrete problems or to provide
```

concrete solutions.
* Effective and efficient tools are provided to the community that help to meet the
targets and goals that are set in this document and in the accessibilty guidelines.

> * Regularly test components of ILIAS to make sure that there is no regression in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* We want to regularly test components of ILIAS to make sure that there is no regression in
```

accessibility properties of the system.

> * Improve general knowledge and awareness for accessibility in the ILIAS community.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* We want to immprove general knowledge and awareness for accessibility in the ILIAS community.
```

> * Evaluate this process regularly, improve it according to new insights and adapt

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* We want to evaluate this process regularly, improve it according to new insights and adapt
```

it to new situations.

## Participants

To achieve these goals, various people need to participate in different roles during
the release cycle. This section should help to clarify the expectations towards these
participants. Roles central to the process are listed first.

* UI/UX/A11y expert group:
    * supports maintainers and developers on general and specific questions regarding
      feature requests, issue tickets and implementations
    * works on processes and strategies to improve processes
    * sends members to the SIG Accessibility and takes part in the discussions there
    * works with UI-Coordinators to improve components and processes
    * analyses accessibility reports
    * reviews and improves test suites
    * provides feedback on feature requests before Jour Fixe.

>     * take part in Jour Fixe to answers questions on issues and features

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * sends members to take part in Jour Fixe to answers questions on issues and features
```

>     * carries out annual review of this process 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * carries out an annual review of this process 
```

    * answers queries to the accessibility mailing-list
    * is responsible for this document

* Maintainers and Developers

>     * develop new components and features in accordance with accessibility guidelines

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * develop new components and features in accordance with the accessibility guidelines
```

>     * carries out the accessibility checklist on own projects and reviews own code

Reviewer 2: Der Text ist hier leider etwas doppeldeutig. Hier einfach einmal ein Versuch:
```suggestion
    * apply the accessibility checklist to their own projects and review their own code
```

      with focus on accessibility

>     * builds sound understanding of accessibility

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * acquire a sound understanding of accessibility
```

>     * get in contact with expert group to get better understanding of accessibility

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * get in contact with the expert group to improve their understanding of accessibility
```

>       issues or guidelines

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      issues and our guidelines
```

* UI-Coordinators

>     * triages objectively testable accessibility bugs for UI components

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * triage objectively testable accessibility bugs for UI components
```

>     * checks if formal requirements are met and code is at the correct locus

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * check if the formal requirements are met and the code is at the correct locus
```
Finde ich gerade schwierig zu verstehen. Ist dies synonym zu "...and the code is in the correct place"?

>     * builds sound understanding of accessibility

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * acquire a sound understanding of accessibility
```

>     * contact expert group to get better understanding of accessibility issues or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * get in contact with the expert group to improve their understanding of **accessibility**
```

>       guidelines

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      and our guidelines
```

* Community Tester for Accessibility 

>     * carries out test cases of accessibility test suite in beta phase 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * carries out test cases of the accessibility test suite in the beta phase 
```

>     * uses of simple diagnostical browser extensions like WAVE or Lighthouse to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * uses a simple diagnostic browser extensions like WAVE or Lighthouse to
```

      automate a part of testing

>     * provides feedback on quality and coverage of accessibility test suite to the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * provides feedback on quality and coverage of the accessibility test suite to the
```

      Test Case Author for Accessibility 

>     * analyses External Beta Accessibility Assessment Reports. Prepares bugs based

Reviewer 2: Das ist für mich ein klarer Fall für issues statt bugs, je nach dem ist dann eben etwas ein Bug oder eine Frage, die geklärt werden muss. Darum würde ich auch explizit dazunehmen, dass unsere Guidelines mitbeachtet werden müssen.
```suggestion
    * analyses the the reports of the External Beta Accessibility Assessment and prepares issue reports based
```

>       on report

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      on the report and our accessibility guidelines
```

>     * has sound understanding of accessibility and can be consults by developers on

Reviewer 2: Würde ich hier nicht machen. Ausser wir schränken es wirklich auf die selber eingestellten Bugs ein.
```suggestion
    * has a sound understanding of accessibility and can be consulted by developers on
```

      bugs

* Test Case Author for Accessibility
    * prepares, organises and writes test cases of the Accessibility Test Suite

>     * Supports Community Tester for Accessibility, improves cases upon feedback

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * supports Community Tester for Accessibility, improves cases upon feedback
```

      from Community Tester or Developer

>     * Analyses Accessibility Assessment Reports. Reviews Test Suite in the light

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * analyses Accessibility Assessment Reports. Reviews Test Suite in the light
```

      of said report and makes changes accordingly. Supports Community in preparing
      bugs based on Accessibility Assessment Reports

>     * Has sound understanding of accessibility and can be consulted by developers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * has a sound understanding of accessibility and can be consulted by developers
```

>       on bugs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      on accessibility issues.
```

>     * Works in close coordination with/or is member of the UI/UX/A11y expert group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * works in close coordination with/or is member of the UI/UX/A11y expert group.
```

* Chair SIG Accessibility
    * Role requirements are described in [Rules of Procedure](https://docu.ilias.de/goto_docu_cat_3773.html)
      for Special Interest Groups.

>     * advocates accessibility to community i.e. ensures reports are prepared on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * advocates accessibility to community i.e. ensures reports are prepared and presented at
```

      DevConfs.
    * organizes or initiates or delegates the fundraising

* Accessibility Contractor

>     * Is contracted to perform audits and run accessibility trainings for developers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * is contracted to perform audits and run accessibility trainings for developers
```

      and community members.
    * is contracted to advise and consults on major UI Developments
    * Accessibility contractors should be tendered and selected from BITV-Test-
      Prüfverband or similar.

* Managing Director of ILIAS society
    * Contracts external Beta Accessibility Assessment with dedicated agency.

* Product Manager
    * Ensures accessibility is aptly considered in feature requests in Jour Fixe

* Technical Board
    * appoints UI/UX/A11y expert group, makes sure that the group works as intended

>       and takes the responsibility of that group, if the group does not function

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      and takes responsibility, if the group does not function
```

      as intended
    * is responsible for the general form and direction of the accessibility process

* Community Test Manager
    * coordinates accessibility testing

## Tools

To support the work in the various stages of the release cycle the community

> use different tools. This section clarifies the purpose and usage of these tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
uses different tools. This section clarifies the purpose and usage of these tools.
```

> * [Guidelines](./accessibility.md)

Reviewer 2: Warum nicht
```suggestion
* [Accessibility Guidelines](./accessibility.md)
```
?

>     * The accessibility guidelines are based on the WCAG and put these guidelines

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * The Accessibility Guidelines are based on the WCAG and put these guidelines
```

      in the context of ILIAS. The guidelines are supplemented with:
        * specific rules in KS entries which interpret guidelines for UI-elements
        * the Accessibility Checklist, that interprets guidelines to make them
          objectively testable wherever possible
    * We accept that there is ambivalence in the rules that are not objectively
      testable. We strive to shrink this ambivalence.

>     * Accessibility guidelines are kept in synch with WCAG developments

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * The Accessibility Guidelines are kept in synch with WCAG developments
```

>     * Access Guidelines refer to resources on specific accessibility issues for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * The Accessibility Guidelines refer to resources on specific accessibility issues for
```

      all consumers to look up and self-educate

* [Accessibility Checklist](./accessibility.md#Checklist)
    * The Accessibility Checklist is documented as md-file along with the

>       accessibility guidelines.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Accessibility Guidelines.
```

    * Maintainers and Developers use the Accessibility Checklist to assess

>       accessibility of their ongoing implementation projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      the accessibility of their ongoing implementation projects.
```

* [Feature Wiki](https://docu.ilias.de/goto_docu_wiki_wpage_1_1357.html)
    * For Feature Requests a dedicated section "Accessibility" is to be filled

>       out by the maintainer - very much like "Privacy".

Reviewer 2: Ich würde den Verweis auf die Privacy streichen. Dies ist nur von sehr vorübergehendem Interesse. Bald weiss hoffentlich niemand mehr, was zuerst kam ;-).
```suggestion
      out by the maintainer".
```

>     * The Maintainer has to state if the feature implements a behaviour that is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * The Maintainer has to state if a new feature implements a behaviour that is
```

Author: Ich glaube nicht, dass das richtig ist.

Reviewer 2: @klees : You are right! My bad.

>       neither covered by an existing UI-Component nor complies with the accessibility

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      neither covered by an existing UI-Component nor complies with the Accessibility
```

>       guideline. If this is the case maintainer has to consult with the UI/UX/A11y

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Guideline. If this is the case the maintainer has to consult with the UI/UX/A11y
```

>       expert group. The UI/UX/A11y expert group then provides risk analysis of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      expert group. The UI/UX/A11y expert group then provides a risk analysis of
```

      features in the Feature Wiki and recommends an accessible approach. If the
      maintainer is unsure about the accessibility issues of a feature, the

>       maintainer may turn to Accessibility Mailing List.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      maintainer may turn to the Accessibility Mailing List.
```

    * The "Accessibility" section is to be completed before the article can be

>       finally decided by Jour Fixe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      finally decided upon by the Jour Fixe.
```

* [Testrail](https://testrail.ilias.de)
    * A [test suite dedicated to Accessibility](https://testrail.ilias.de/index.php?/runs/view/566&group_by=cases:section_id&group_order=asc)
      is available.
    * Test cases are well groomed, easy to carry out and understand.
    * Test cases refer to resource on specific accessibility issues for all

>       consumers to look up and self-educate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      consumers to look up and self-educate.
```

    * Test Cases are provided that use simple diagnostical browser extensions like
      lighthouse, HTML Validator or Wave browser extension.
    * All KS-Entries are tested for the prioritized issues and using automatic
      tools.

* Development Tools

>     * Detects issues very early on and drives home the importance of accessibility

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Detect issues very early on and drives home the importance of accessibility
```

      during development.
    * Reports are prepared with Continuous Integration and reported to Jour Fixe.
    * All developers are encouraged to make use of simple diagnostical browser
      extensions like lighthouse, HTML Validator or Wave browser extension

* [Issue Tracker](https://mantis.ilias.de)
    * Issues can be reported on automatically testable violations of guidelines.
    * Issues can be reported on violations of accessibility rules listed in a KS
      entry, but also the on the rules themselves if they need improvement.
      The KS entry and implementation are amended via the normal KS process.

>     * Issues can be reported against soft / non-objective parts of the accessibility

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Issues can be reported against soft / non-objective parts of the Accessibility
```

>       guidelines. These require discussion and decisions. Accessibility Guidelines

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Guidelines. These require discussion and decisions. The Accessibility Guidelines
```

      are to be amended or clarified to become more objective. Tickets of this kind
      are assigned to the UI/UX/A11y expert group.

* [Jour Fixe](https://docu.ilias.de/goto.php?target=wiki_1357_Jour_Fixe_Agendas)

>     * Maintainers can put forward their Accessibility issues that came up during

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * Maintainers can put forward their accessibility issues that came up during
```

      implementation as "Development Issues".

>     * Can be contacted for resolving discussions/deciding on issues among different stakeholders on A11y questions.      

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * can be contacted for resolving discussions/deciding on issues among different stakeholders on accessibility questions.      
```

* [UI Components](../..//src/UI/README.md)

>     * Lists UI Components of ILIAS along with a purpose description an A11y on specific UI Components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * lists UI Components of ILIAS along with a purpose description on accessibility.
```

>     * Can be used to lookup of the mechanism of specific parts of the UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * can be used to lookup of the mechanism of specific parts of the UI.
```

* Accessibility Mailing List
    * First POC for Maintainers
    * Maintainers, writers of Feature wiki articles can turn themselves to Acessibility
      Mailing List to get their issues looked at.
    * The mailing list is managed by the UI/UX/A11y expert group

## Activities in Release Cycle

> To above goals are not achievable in a single step. They need to be tackled continuously in an iterative process aiming to push 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The goals stated above are not achievable in a single step. They need to be tackled continuously in an iterative process aiming to push 
```

closer towards achieving those goals with each iteration. This section shows how we understand our release cycle as one

> iteration in the process of enhancing A11y in ILIAS. The main responsibility for following those steps listed in this 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
iteration in the process of enhancing accessibility in ILIAS. The main responsibility for following those steps listed in this 
```

> cycle resides by the Technical Board supported by the SIG A11y and the A11y expert group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cycle resides with the Technical Board supported by the SIG Accessibility and the UI/UX/A11y expert group.
```

### Contracted External Beta Accessibility Assessment - November

> * Early in Beta phase a formative Accessibility Assessment is carried out by a registered auditor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Early in the Beta phase a formative Accessibility Assessment is carried out by a registered auditor.
```

> * Those audits have the main goal of evaluate the A11y of a aspect of ILIAS (e.g. new Features, status of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Those audits have the main goal of evaluating the accessibility of an aspect of ILIAS (e.g. new Features, status of
```
Sind wir sicher, dass wir dies immer im Singular wollen? Wir schauen uns da immer nur einen einzigen Aspekt an.

  a given service module or component or guidelines).
* Those audits provide feedback on the quality of the tested aspect. 
* Note, certification of any kind or generating lists for issue trackers are NOT goals of that assessment.
* The Product Manager signs the contract with the registered auditor. The SIG may help in providing the funding.

> * ILIAS society provides test installation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The ILIAS society provides test installation.
```

### Huge Project Identification Jour Fixe / Yearly Project
* During the Huge Project Identification Meeting we try to identify large UI heavy components to make sure accessibility 
issues are addressed early and continuously. 
* Huge UI heavy components may choose to contract external accessibility testing before merging.

> ### After-Action Review Accessibility - March

Reviewer 2: Dieser Block war für mich ganz schwer verständlich: Was gehört in das After-Action Review als Sitzung und was gehört da hin als Prozess. Ich habe einfach einmal versucht den Text in eine Richtung gerade zu ziehen.

> * After the release the A11y expert group organizes an After-Action Review.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* After the release the UI/UX/A11y expert group organizes an After-Action Review.
```

> * Yearly meeting open to all community members.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* There is a yearly meeting organized by UI/UX/A11y expert group and open to all community members.
```
Wer organisiert dieses? Hab einfach einmal angenommen, das machen auch gleich die Expertinnen.

* After publishing the stable release, the former season is analysed with respect to accessibility.

> * Draws up plan for upcoming season.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The UI/UX/A11y expert group draws up a plan for the upcoming season.
```

> * The Main Question is, how well did our current process and guidelines hold water during this release?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The Main Question is: How well did our current process and guidelines hold water during this release?
```

> * Maintains and reviews accessibility guidelines according to on new guidelines from the WCAG or other major developments outside the ILIAS Community.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* During this phase the UI/UX/A11y expert group reviews und updates the Accessibility Guidelines according to possible new guidelines from the WCAG or other major developments outside the ILIAS Community.
```

> * Triggers Test Case Author to adopt Test Suite.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The meeting servers as trigger for the Test Case Author for Accessibility to adapt the Test Suite.
```

> * Reviews processes and roles that manage accessibility

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* During this phase the  UI/UX/A11y expert group reviews processes and roles that manage accessibility.
```

### Feature Freeze - April
* Features for Accessibility Improvements are to be handed in on time.
* Features for Accessibility Improvements may be derived from the After-Action Review.

### Feature Development 

> * Feature must adhere to accessibility guidelines

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Feature must adhere to the Accessibility Guidelines
```

> * Maintainers carry out Accessibility Checklist (Todo, provide Link) during implementation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Maintainers go through the Accessibility Checklist (Todo, provide Link) during implementation
```

# Accessibility Process

The ILIAS community aims to provide a system that is usable for everyone, including
users with special needs. This document clarifies how we want to move our software
towards this goal incrementally, who is involved, which tools the community uses and
how different activities are incorporated in our release cycle.

**Table of Contents**
* [Goals](#goals)
* [Participants](#participants)
* [Tools](#tools)
* [Activities in Release Cycle](#activities)
* [Future Development](#future-development)

<a name="goals"></a>
## Goals

While the general goal is to provide a system that is usable to for everyone, that
goal needs to be elaborated to some more concrete goals to become effective. These
concrete goals are:

> 

Reviewer 4: Our goal is ILIAS to comply with the WCA Guidelines. We will continually work hard towards this.

Reviewer 4: ILIAS aims to comply with the WCA Guidelines. This process attempts to ensure constant improvements towards this goal.

concrete solutions.
* Effective and efficient tools are provided to the community that help to meet the
targets and goals that are set in this document and in the accessibilty guidelines.
* Regular tests of components of ILIAS make sure that there is no regression in
accessibility properties of the system.
* The general knowledge and awareness for accessibility in the ILIAS community is
improved.
* This process regularly evaluated, improved and adapted to new insights and new
situations.

<a name="participants"></a>
## Participants

To achieve these goals, various people need to participate in different roles during
the release cycle. This section should help to clarify the expectations towards these
participants. Roles central to the process are listed first.

* [UI/UX/A11y Expert Group](../development/expert-groups.md)
    * supports maintainers and developers on general and specific questions regarding
      feature requests, issue tickets and implementations
    * works on processes and strategies to improve processes
    * sends members to the SIG Accessibility and takes part in the discussions there

>     * works with UI-Coordinators to improve components and processes

Reviewer 4: participates in UI Clinic

>     * works with UI-Coordinators to improve components and processes

Reviewer 4: commits to having response rates and keep them reliably

    * analyses accessibility reports
    * reviews and improves test suites

>     * provides feedback on feature requests before Jour Fixe

Reviewer 4: reviews all feature requests scheduled to be discussed in a given Jour Fixe
